So now that we've talked about all this,
let's take a look at the code
that we've been building.
So if we go ahead and
look at our types right now.
You might notice that both the dish and
the restaurant type share
this property called status.
And more importantly,
status is just a string.
When a lot of us know that when it comes
to letting users choose something,
it's best to have some sort of
options that they consistently use.
So if we go ahead and take a look
back at our restaurants page, and
take a look at it.
So we can see here that okay status
is we have want to try, recommended,
do not recommend, okay.
And then dishes page similarly
there's want to try, recommended,
do not recommend, okay?
So now this is where we're seeing
a use case for having shared types.
And more importantly we want something
that's a little bit more specific than
just generic string type that we have.
So we're gonna learn now is learn
how to define those things.
So the way we're gonna do this is,
I'm just gonna call it a type of status.
So we're just gonna call it, and what
we're gonna learn about here is the union
operator which basically allows
you to define specific values for
the type rather than just a generic
like data primitive or whatever.
So in this case we had,
I think it was Want to Try,
I think it was Recommend, and then I
think it was Do Not Recommend, okay.
And so then what we can do here is rather
than just putting like the generic string,
we can actually say,
This is gonna be a type Status.
And what that allows you to do now is that
when you hover over this you can see that
it actually tells you
the exact ones that it allows.
Now, we go back over now to our page,
you'll notice something kind of funny.
Status is yelling at us.
And the reason for this is because it's
saying, hey, I don't recognize this value.
In other words when it says
something's overloaded usually
doesn't recognize the value.
And it's saying what is recommended?
And so I'm like, well, I thought I defined
it as recommended, but let's go ahead and
check the logbook.
Nope, we didn't, we call it Recommend.
And so it's little things like this
that can make a huge difference for
helping to start putting really some shape
to your application when it comes to like,
okay this is the information
architecture we're looking for,
these are the options we
want to limit people to.
And so in this case I think Recommended
is better than Recommend because that was
a typo on my end.
And so now if I save it you'll see that
that just automatically transposes over.
And same deal now on the dishes
page if I go ahead and
I'm like I think dishes should
also get like Delicious status.
That's fine, that I did that but
then wait a second,
maybe it's not because it's
not actually matching, right?
At this point we want them to
share just a little bit easier.
And so you see something as simple
as creating that custom type and
then dropping it between the two we
see already there's a ton of benefit,
especially when these types are reused
multiple times throughout your codebase.
Now you're getting those alerts that like,
hey, this property you're adding doesn't
exist or has the wrong types now,
and we can get even more specific.
Okay, so
we've now created our own custom type.
And so I want you all to practice
creating your own custom type.
And what we're gonna be doing
is I want you to create a diet.
So actually, I forgot.
I have this constants file here to
give some guidance as far as what this
might be.
So basically when it comes to eating food,
dietary restrictions are a thing.
So I just created four
options to keep it simple.
There's Vegetarian, Pescatarian, Keto and
then there's blank, cuz some of them just,
it's like everything
that it doesn't matter.
And so I'd like you to
create your own custom type.
Don't worry about referring
to the const dietlist,
just reference the values cuz we'll be
taking care of that in the next one.